in the summer of 2010 a young youtuber
named Matt gyan started a series of
video reviews called books versus movies
reviews wherein he would compare movie
adaptations to the books that they were
based on since then those reviews have
propelled him to start to internet no to
a fourth digit subscriber count and he
has done 32 of those reviews in addition
to this guy and has become fascinated
with adaptations of stories in general
including movie adaptations that didn't
work too well movie adaptations that
worked extremely well and stage
productions that became screen
productions in addition to just the very
mechanics of how these adaptations work
and it was this last more than anything
that led to some of his writings on the
subject guy and of course was no
stranger to the world of text he read a
great deal he wrote his own novel and he
actually began his presence on the
internet in the form of a text blog in
2003 but it wasn't until relatively
recently that he started doing his own
text-based reviews both on his own
tumblr account and also for his sister's
fairytale adaptation blog where he
writes reviews of the Disney fairy tale
adaptations so it was only a matter of
time before gyan decided to make his
written reviews more widely known now
this is an unusual review to say the
least we don't usually compare
non-fiction works we generally don't
look at text adaptations of visual media
and this is our first time looking at
web-based video so we're breaking a lot
of new ground here but we've decided
that so much of guy ins very unusual
internet life comes through in his vlogs
and his writings and his reviews and so
it felt only right for us to do this
comparison somehow so let's not waste
any more time this is books versus
movies review of the reviews of Matt
gyan
let's get started by looking at the main
character in this narrative Matt gyan
notice since grown almost unreasonably
complicated Matt guy ins life as a video
reviewers started out relatively simply
in 2008 he did some informal book
reviews on his second YouTube channel
vlog driver and then in 2009 he started
his first formal reviewing series on his
main channel favorite books reviews the
idea for books versus movies reviews
came about a year and a half later when
a persona known as the mad hatter it was
just guy in wearing some sort of hat
suggested the idea and after some debate
they decided to implement it actually
what I believe happened is that gyan
came up with the idea himself and then
had her barged in and persuaded him
somehow to sacrifice his ideals and do
it his way and by sacrifice his ideals
what you of course mean is make the
series infinitely better by keeping it
from turning into the movie bashing fest
that guy had originally intended it to
be for your information those reviews
were going to be more than fair please
he said in the introductory video that
this was going to be a series about how
the movies always ruined the books and
had her simply suggested that he might
put fewer people off if he approached
the reviews with a little bit more
reason and a lot and who is he to come
swooping in and telling that guy in how
that he was that guy and he just had
more than two working brain cell now
that's just low look sir he's going to
be the man raising on whatever view you
can't just use to my personal matters
like that I am Telling You those reviews
I'm kidding me seriously how
self-indulgent can you possibly get et
what are you talking about wasn't
talking to you look I mean we weren't
you talking to you either look dude if
you want to tell them something just
tell them why do you always have to
resort to these gimmicks and don't think
that having me make a cameo appearance
in your video is going to help either
your viewers aren't that easily
distracted check the date
I hate you
you
alright alright in all seriousness there
is actually a point behind this video
beyond just the April Fool's joke happy
april fools day by the way so a lot of
you might have noticed that I haven't
been posting videos nearly as often this
year as I have in the past and as I've
mentioned a couple of times before real
life blah blah blah rest assured I am
still working on reviews writing them
and getting everything organized but
given that i have not been able to
upload video reviews as regularly i have
been trying to do more written reviews
on my tumblr account which is always
linked in the description of my videos
for example you can read a short and
rather scathing review that I wrote of
oz the great and powerful which is
neither great nor powerful but what I
would like to do is this as you know I
generally participate in blog every day
in September rather than vlog every day
in April and I'm not going to
participate in vlog every day in April
but i am going to participate in blog
every day in April except with blogs
it's going to be reviews i'm going to be
doing a review every day in April and
all of those will be written reviews and
they will be on my tumblr account in a
lot of these cases i'm actually
revisiting some of the comparative
reviews that I've done in the past
taking another look at them and kind of
going into a little bit more depth than
maybe I did in the video and included of
these reviews are also going to be the
Disney reviews that I've been doing for
Cassie's blog her fairytale adaptation
blog which I mentioned previously in
which i will maybe also link in the
description if i remember to do so but
if you want to get a general idea of
what to expect from these text based
reviews the first review of the month
the april first review should be up on
the tumblr right now so you can go and
check that out read it see if it's
anything that you'd be interested in it
might be too much reading for you I
don't know but if you're interested in
reading some of my other musings in the
background of the videos that I put on
YouTube then feel free to read along
great salesman
my own work and that's it for me for the
time being expect some more videos
hopefully within the next few weeks and
until then happy April see you
he would compare movies that were based
on books on the the books prepositions
and he entered his in the something and